### PineScript Projects
A repository containing open source projects that I post on Tradingview. Goal is to make use of simple stat101 quantitative methods and also other existing Pinescript libraries to systematically replicate the process of technical analysis. 

In 2021, during the second year of the pandemic, I picked up Pinescript to learn about trading. To a further extent, I even started a consulting practice (http://consulting.kevinhhl.com) providing coding services to traders. This experience has allowed me to observe and understand what traders are looking for when they are staring at price charts.

I subscribe to the notion that randomness is a key element of price. We as human-beings are irrational on the ground that emotions often override rationality. However, we are always in denial of this fact and we have proclivity towards displaying competence. We do things such as compiling reports, building models, and performing forecasts; it could be just another deliverable for a boss or client to accept, or perhaps it’s a journal for personal references. At the end of the day we strive to explain the cause-and-effect of phenomenons that maybe are just caused by randomness. This issue with randomness is that it is chaotic, and chaos cannot co-exist with sanity. We need to build structures that put chaos into order, at least to the extent of how we perceive reality.
 
“Technical analysis”, if referring to using free hands to draw trend lines on a clump of noise made up of brownian motion, combined with cliches such as “be humble”, etc., opens up doors for gurus providing trading courses to promise how traders can grow their accounts by multiple folds at the comfort of their bedrooms without having a background in finance. There is nothing wrong with starting a business to teach a topic that you are passionate about, but I despise teachers of pseudosciences who make baseless claims to deceive the innocent. Students who buy into what these gurus are selling are, sadly, being fooled by randomness.

I argue that results derived from manual backtests are highly prone to errors, it is essentially a self-review of your own ideas. Everybody wants to be correct with their ideas. Alternatively, Pinescript provides a low cost solution to performing backtests. The equity curve produced by Tradingview’s backtester is in no way a reflection of reality, but at least it portrays an objective evidence on how well a trade idea might perform. Equity curves can also be used as comparables against competing strategies. The main point is, you cannot use discretionary approaches to make a claim that you have a viable strategy, it is because you will be biased towards the fact you think your initial idea was correct. 

The advantage of Pinescript runs on TradingView’s servers, so it is suitable for retail traders and investors who do not have intentions to keep their machines running around the clock. Best of all, access to market data is readily available. The only downside is that it does not follow object oriented programming paradigm, and there isn’t a built in debugging interface. Nevertheless, the benefits of it still outweigh the cons. 

Link to the rest of my projects at http://tradingview.kevinhhl.com

